echnologies for copying and distributing data and database objects from one database to another and then synchronizing between databases to maintain consistency

1) Transactional replication -->for improving scalability and availability;
2) Merge replication --> designed for mobile applications or distributed server applications that have possible data conflicts
3) Snapshot replication -->provide the initial data set for transactional and merge replication;it can also be used when complete refreshes of data are appropriate

components involved in replication
1) Publisher --> SQL Server instance that is replicating the data
2) Subscriber --> SQL Server instance that is receiving the data 
3) Articel --> individual database object like a table, view or stored procedure, etc. that will be replicating to another server.
4) Publications ->  set of articles that are being replicated to a Subscriber.
5) Distributer --> atabase that stores replication specific data 
6) Agent jobs --> replication processes involved in copying and moving data between the Publisher and Subscribers.

Replication Agents are involved in SQL Server Transactional Replication?
1) Snapshot Agent
2) Log Reader Agent --> used by Transactional replication only.replicates all transactions from the Publisher to the Distributor.it runs on the Distributor.
3) Distribution Agent -->move transactions from the distributor to subscriber.used by Snapshot and Transactional replication.runs on the distributor for PUSH subscriptions and 
   runs on the Subscriber for PULL subscriptions.
4) Queue Reader Agent

Change subscriber DB name steps:
1) ALTER DATABASE DBNAME Modify Name = DBNAME_NEW;
2) create another subscription for this renamed database and drop the older subscription.


We can configure Replication for any database irrespective of their recovery model. The recovery model is not a prerequisite to configure replication for a database.
Cannot truncate a table that is marked for replication.

all tables that need to be replicated have a primary key for transactional replication

Reasons fo replication latency :
1) One of the Replication Agent jobs is not running or failing during execution.
2) A huge data load or large transactions occurred on your publication database.
3) You have small network bandwidth to replicate your large set of data.
4) Poor resource configuration like storage, RAM, etc
